Final Reflection

    As I was writing the codes for the patients’ management portal project, I learnt a few things. One of them is that I need to improve my knowledge on database management. Currently, I am just using csv files to store and manage the data. With database management, I believe it will help with minimizing potential errors and the application can also respond more efficiently to the user's needs. Another important lesson from doing this final project was that a well-structured plan before coding goes a long way. When I first started the final project, I dived right into coding. So, I was wasting a lot of my time going back and forth between various functions. That is where I struggled the most as well. As the program grew bigger and more complex, it became very hard for me to connect them altogether. That’s when I realized that for any project, I need to have a flowchart or a plan to help me break the project into different functions and identify the tasks involved in each function.

    I used all kinds of data structures such as string, booleans, lists, tuples, dictionaries, classes and objects in my project which helped me grasp a deeper understanding of how each data structure works. After finishing the project, I genuinely felt that I was indeed improving in this programming journey. I really enjoyed object-oriented programming especially because it provides a way of combining data and functionality together in one play which in turn keeps my codes more organized. During the presentations, I was mesmerized by the user interfaces and functionalities of my classmates’ final projects. Since I also want to add a user interface to my final project, I will work on the user interface as soon as I have some free time after the finals.

    My goal has always been to write a fully-functioning program for patients’ management before I graduate from this program. This project is the first step towards that goal and I feel very accomplished that I completed that step. I am aware that there are a lot more improvements that I can make and a lot more features that I can add to the program. As I continue with my studies at Northeastern University I will be tackling one problem after another and grow as a programmer.
